I think nutrition makes a massive
difference when you're training training
regularly then it's not just about that
session but you need to be thinking
about the session you're going to be
doing in four days time as I've learnt
to use nutritional products a bit better
it's definitely helped me to train
harder it's both in terms of fueling
feeling the outings and particularly
recovering from it the big guys are
probably taking on 6,000 calories a day
and you can do that in three meals but
you need to be snacking and and and
really fuelling yourself during the
session it's important they go out and
start a training session very well
fuelled and make sure you get you keep
on top of your nutrition within a
session so take out lots of carbohydrate
rich drinks and gels while you're rowing
and while you're training so sports
crucial to asking the guys are always
going out with one or two bottles of the
carbohydrate drink often get through the
gels as well as a sort of short term
energy hit to get them through those
long endurance sessions after the your
training session you've got a really
short window to get in as much
replenishment as possible they hit the
rego to replenish some of that carb and
get some protein in quickly to start
repairing the muscle damage in shoes
after exercise around the weights
they're pretty big on the rego rapid
odor to build bigger muscles because
they need to be very strong and powerful
it's the little things that will make
the big difference in performance and
nutrition is clearly one of them so you
know you've got to get that right it's
like putting fuel in your car if you
don't put any fuel in your car it won't
go anywhere so you're putting fuel into
your body to be able to perform part of
my ritual before a race will be to get
the caffeine gels in at certain times I
do it in an hour before the race and
then they've gained about half an hour
before the race eat a balanced diet
maintain your weight at a healthy level
and eat as close to training as is
sensible
so as you actually absorb the food
good state we would always have our Rico
or recovery fuel after a water session
it plays a big part in our land training
and our weights training we use rapid
and I think that really helps us recover
and also push on during the weight
session I think it wouldn't be one of
the biggest differences in the last few
years with our team definitely it's
about coping and it's about it's keeping
standards high and that's why we'll
always use products before we get going
while we're going and then after we're
going and they're all slightly different
products and they all are absolutely
crucial to to keep us at the level we
need to be at